There are many threats and vulnerabilities you might
identify in the Jill and Roy's Accounting Case Study,
and consequently, many recommendations you can make.
In the real world, you might write a report to
accompany a presentation you would give to management.
For the purposes of this exercise, however,
here are some risks and recommendations that I developed.
My analysis identified six important risks to Jill and Roy's accounting.
The first was administrative access to all of the PCs.
Second, the personal computers were handling business data.
Third, the Bring Your Own Device Policy for cellphones.
Then you notice that there were some games and streaming software on their business PC.
Remote access to the company file server,
which could enable malware or ransomware on it.
The update frequency specified by the IT contract,
basically how often they update patches.
Let's talk about each of these one by one.
For administrative access, the risk here is that
if all users have admin authority on the PC,
they can install any software they want,
they can make any changes they want.
This is very risky because you don't know what they could do or what they could install.
Recommendation is remove administrative access for end users.
Let them use the standard user account in Windows 10.
Another problem for Jill and Roy's is that
temporary workers are using their own computers.
They could accidentally download some company information or
personal information for one of Jill and Roy's clients under their own personal machine.
This is a risk because you can lose control of that data,
leading to an inadvertent data breach.
A bring Your Own Device Policy is often in place for many organizations.
The challenge is, is you need to make sure that you provide
the policies and standards for how people can use their smartphones.
It's okay to use it for general e-mail.
Don't allow standard users to be able to
download any personal information from any of the clients.
So tell your employees who use Bring Your Own Device,
what their expectations are.
You should've also noticed on the Windows 10 system that there
are games and employees were using it to play games.
This is a business machine,
it really should be called a BC,
not a PC, business computer instead of personal computer.
I recommend removing games because they could
contain malware and they are a distraction for the business.
Remote access is often dangerous for computer systems
because you can't always control who can access it remotely across the Internet.
I recommend turning off Remote Desktop Protocol, or RDP,
on all PCs where you can or at least restrict using a firewall,
how people can connect to it.
You don't want just anyone from the Internet on your computers.
Another thought is to check the update frequency on that PC.
You want to make sure that it's patched from the Microsoft Patch Tuesday.
Another thing is to back it up daily,
if not weekly, just to make sure you don't lose any critical files.